Patient Name: John Doe, a 45-year-old male, came in today complaining of severe abdominal pain. He's been my patient for years now, and I remember he had a history of gallstones. I think it was last year or maybe two years ago when he underwent a cholecystectomy. I'll have to check his file later. Anyway, he said the pain started a few days ago, and it's been getting worse. He described it as a sharp, stabbing sensation in his upper right quadrant, radiating to his back. I suspect it could be related to his previous gallbladder issues, but I can't rule out other possibilities like pancreatitis or even a peptic ulcer.
I asked about his diet, and he admitted to eating a lot of fatty and spicy foods recently. That could definitely exacerbate his condition. He also mentioned he's been under a lot of stress at work, pulling long hours and skipping meals. I advised him to avoid trigger foods and try to manage his stress better.
On physical examination, I noted he was afebrile but had slight tachycardia. His blood pressure was a bit elevated at 145/90 mmHg. Abdominal palpation revealed tenderness in the right upper quadrant, and I could elicit a positive Murphy's sign. No jaundice or signs of ascites though.
I ordered a complete blood count, liver function tests, and amylase/lipase levels to check for any signs of infection, hepatic dysfunction, or pancreatic involvement. I also scheduled an abdominal ultrasound to get a better look at his gallbladder bed and rule out any retained stones or sludge.
Oh, I almost forgot to mention, John has a family history of colon cancer. His father was diagnosed in his late 50s, I believe. I've been trying to get John to schedule a colonoscopy for years now, but he always finds an excuse to put it off. I really need to emphasize the importance of screening, especially given his family history.
Anyway, I gave John a prescription for some pain meds and advised him to follow up in a week or sooner if his symptoms worsen. I also told him to go to the ER if he develops a fever, chills, or severe vomiting. You know, the usual spiel.
I remember John used to smoke a pack a day back in the day. He quit a few years ago, but I wonder if that history could be contributing to his current issues. I'll have to look into that.
Oh, one more thing, I noticed John had a rash on his arms. He said it's been there for a while and it's not itchy, but it looks suspicious to me. I'm going to refer him to a dermatologist just to be safe. Could be eczema or psoriasis, but I don't want to miss something more serious like skin cancer.
Well, that's about it for now. I'll update his file with today's notes and follow up on those test results. Hopefully, it's nothing too serious, and we can get John feeling better soon. I swear, sometimes it feels like I'm playing detective trying to piece together all these different symptoms and histories. But that's the job, right? Never a dull moment in primary care.